Good morning and welcome to session 714.
For the next hour,
myself and my colleagues Conrad
and Michael are going to be
talking about protecting the
user's data and the part that you,
as developers, can play in that.
First of all,
a little bit about ourselves.
We are all members of the
platform security team at Apple.
And we really operate
up and down the stack,
all the way down from
the secure bootloader,
all the way up to applications
and even the cloud.
But sometimes what we are always
involved is when a cryptographic
key is used to protect users' data.
That's technologies you've
probably come across before.
We also design and build
solutions for internal clients.
For example,
we were involved with designing
the cryptography used by iMessage.
We expose a lot of that functionality
through APIs for use by third parties,
such as yourselves, security framework,
common cryptobing examples.
That same functionality is also
exposed by other Apple APIs at
an even higher level.
For example, NSFAR Manager, CF Network,
and we're going to be pulling from both
of those layers during this presentation.
What are we going to talk about?
We're going to look
at a common situation,
which is a client app
talking to a web service.
We're going to subject it
to a hostile environment,
a simulated attack,
and show what can happen,
talk about why that matters,
and give some simple steps that
you can put in your applications to
avoid falling foul of such attacks.
Some things we're not going to cover.
Securing your app from exploitation,
so sandboxing, hardening,
securing coding practices.
These are all very important topics,
but we're going to assume that's
part of your standard flow
and you're doing this already.
We're also not going to touch on
cryptographic protocol design,
that is,
building things from primitives such
as block ciphers or hash functions.
That's really very tricky
and fraught with peril.
If you find you can't use our high-level
APIs to do what you want and you're
resorting to building your own,
file us a bug and tell us why.
We're also not going to talk
about digital rights management,
because whereas we're talking
about protecting the user's data,
DRM is really protecting
data from the user,
and that's an entirely
different problem domain.
I've used the word "user
data" a lot so far.
What do I mean by that?
Well, really everything is user data.
The documents your application processes,
be it images, text, audio,
the main thing your application does,
that's obviously user data.
But also, things like credentials,
usernames and passwords.
Those, as we'll talk about later,
are particularly sensitive
and worthy of protection.
Things like preferences,
how the user wants to configure your app.
Also user data,
but things you save in preferences
really should be innocuous.
Then there might be other things
that don't instantly spring to mind.
For example, photo metadata.
In there you can have
GPS coordinates and timestamps,
things like that.
And even as something as
innocuous as a unique identifier,
perhaps could be used to correlate a user
coming from two different IP addresses.
Maybe you could geolocate them.
See that a user has been traveling.
So if everything is user data,
user data is everywhere.
It's obviously on the device when
your application is processing it,
but applications really come into
their own when they get information
from the network and they send
information to the network.
So we need to protect
that data in transit.
If you're sending your data somewhere,
obviously it's going
perhaps to your server,
and you need to make sure that it's
properly protected there as well.
But it can also end up off the
device through means like backup,
either tethered to iTunes or, indeed,
to iCloud.
And one of the advantages of
using the high-level applications
is you can tell the system,
"That file is important.
Please protect it." And then when we go
and do things that maybe backup the file,
we can do the very best we
can to try and make sure that
protection remains in place.
So to demonstrate some of this,
we have put a little
application together,
which we're going to be demoing,
and bring on to the stage now Conrad,
who's going to talk
about that application.
Right, so this is our common application.
It's going to be a simple media client
because that's the nicest to demonstrate.
What it's going to do,
it's going to download
some images off the server.
The server is of course going to
ask us for authentication so that we
only get access to our own pictures.
And then it's going to store them
so we can also view them later
when we're not on a network.
Just like last year,
we want to make the source available.
We haven't quite worked that out yet,
but we have some hints how you can
get to it later so you can see in
more detail how it works because
in the slides we're only going
to focus on the key parts of it.
And it may be helpful
to see how that works.
And of course,
if the demo fails miserably today,
you'll be able to play it at home.
So first things first,
how do we download the data?
Well, we're not going to come up
with our own custom protocol.
HTTP suffices here just perfectly well.
And what we do is we put that in the URL,
http://ourserver,
and then we hand that off to an
NSURL request to start making that
request and download the data.
Some of you may already
be familiar with this,
but I'm going to go over it anyway.
So after we have this NSURL request,
we hand this off to an NSURL connection,
which is going to take this request
through the many steps that are
necessary-- finding the IP address,
connecting to the server,
doing a whole bunch of stuff.
And sometimes it will need to call
back into us and ask us to help out,
for example, with authentication,
or just to present data
that was downloaded.
So we're going to declare that we support
the protocol that is used for this,
and within that protocol
are various callbacks,
did receive data every time data appears
that can be called multiple times,
or maybe the connection actually fails.
We'll get a "did fail" with error,
and that'll be the end of it.
But everything goes right,
then at the end we'll get the connection
"did finish loading," and we'll know
that the request has now succeeded
and we have what we wanted to get.
So that was downloading the data,
but as I said,
the server's going to authenticate,
and it's going to request authentication
after the first request goes through,
and then the callback
will come in and say,
like, "Hey, the server expects some
authentication here.
What do you want to do about it?"
So that will be the "will send
request for authentication" challenge,
and at that point in time,
what we'll do is we're
going to support the default
authentication method in this case,
and we're going to ask the user
for a username and a password,
and we're going to construct an
NSURL credential out of this,
and then we're going to pass
that credential back to the
sender of this challenge and say,
"Use this credential for
this particular challenge."
Now, one thing you can do, in this case,
we were just presenting
the credential and saying,
like, "Here you go.
Use this for disconnection.
Don't do any caching." But there
is support in this layer to
actually take care of that for you.
And if you make this
credential permanent,
then the layers below you will
use the default keychain classes
to store this password in there.
And on the desktop,
that may mean that it's also
available to other applications.
On iOS, I think this is relevant.
It's only available to
your application itself.
And then when you make connection again,
it will ask you, "Hey,
do you want to use this cached
credential that I have here?"
And then you can say yes.
And of course,
you will still need to handle
the authentication challenge,
because maybe the password is wrong
and you will need to figure that out.
The sample will actually
show how that works.
So now it's time for the demo.
The demo may be ill-fated because
we have a lot of packet loss.
And, well, hopefully,
we'll get something out.
So we're going to give it a shot anyway.
Otherwise, I apologize.
But there will be something
to be seen when you take the
sample home and look at it.
Coming in?
No.
I'll take from here.
All right.
Luckily, I have a diagram.
What I was meant to be doing was
sniffing the connection between
the client and the server.
And I was trying to simulate
a privileged network position,
perhaps another wireless user in
an unprotected wireless network.
So sitting down at your local
cafe that has unprotected network.
And that doesn't work when
every single person seems to
have a MiFi connection on.
But anyway,
and all I was doing was passively
sniffing network traffic.
I wasn't attempting to
do anything special,
like a man-in-the-middle
attack or out poisoning.
I was just looking at the packets.
What I would have seen was HTTP headers.
and bodies.
Saving out the body
straight gave me the image.
I could literally just lop off the
first few lines in a text editor,
save it down, open it in preview.
There was the image.
Also, I could have a look at the header.
And it looked, perhaps,
like there was some encryption
obfuscation going on.
But I could base64 decode it.
And then I had the username
and password right there.
Well, why does this matter?
Why should I really care that I would
have been able to pull those files off?
The first is that whenever
you write an application,
the use to which it's going to be
put by your users should really be
limited only by their imagination.
You might think that your
application couldn't possibly use
for anything confidential or private,
but really, it could be sensitive.
You really never know.
So you've got to assume it
is and protect the data.
So these threats are real.
Public network sniffing is easy,
as I just demonstrated.
And, um...
People lose devices.
I checked in with Lost and Found,
and just yesterday there
were three iOS devices lost.
So I hope they all had passcodes and
got back to their respective owners.
Also, credentials are valuable.
We have special APIs to
look after credentials,
that's the key chain,
and they're valuable for two reasons.
The first is that getting
into a place where I can sniff
a network is quite tricky.
And if I have the network,
then if I have the credentials,
I don't need to be on the network.
As long as I have access to
that server over the Internet,
I could be in my evil lair
in a volcano somewhere,
pull off all the images,
and don't need to be
anywhere near your network.
Also, even if you're really sure
that your application,
your server,
isn't holding anything valuable,
I think we are all guilty of reusing
passwords on different sites.
So if I can grab your password
and your credential from your app,
I can then start trying it on banking
applications and more sensitive
things to see if I can get in.
So we're going to take the basic
application and see if we can
add some more protection to it.
Here's Conrad again.
All right, so let's start with that
password authentication,
because I think that is actually
a pretty interesting problem,
and it's in the news a lot,
so it deserves some attention.
So how are we going to improve this?
Well, in the previous case,
you would have seen that that default
authentication actually just sends the
password more or less in the clear.
Now, it doesn't necessarily
have to be in the clear.
It could be over an encrypted
connection using HTTPS,
but I'm getting ahead of myself.
Let's talk about the password
authentication in itself.
We're sending this password in the clear,
so your server knows the exact
password that the user is using,
and if there's an attack on your server,
then that password can be lost as well.
What can we do instead?
Well,
there are challenge response methods,
and what happens in a challenge response
method is we don't send the password.
We get a challenge.
We derive something, a response from this
password and this challenge,
and send that as the authenticator.
And the key point in that is
that that is a one-way thing.
When you get the authenticator,
it will be impossible to
get back to the password.
It will be a lot harder than
it is to just derive it.
So the easiest way to do
this in the client is,
of course,
after the server has been configured
in the client to refuse to do
HTTP basic and only allow HTTP digest.
Now, that means in the setup case,
though, you still are sending
this plain password.
And when that password is being sent,
it may be sent in a better environment.
And you already cut it down now because
you're only entering it once to setup,
and then at a later point in time,
you will basically only be
using it to access your data,
and that happens much more often.
So I talked a little bit
about the derivation.
One thing that this derivation,
where we go from the password
and a challenge to a response,
cannot happen is if someone
has a weak password.
Because instead of trying to go back,
I can obviously try all, say,
four-digit pins easily.
And that way,
I'll get all the possible authenticators,
and I can just compare those against
the one that I saw on the wire,
and now I will know
what the password was.
So to get beyond that,
there are some more
advanced alternatives.
You can get out of this game
altogether by using certificates.
Now the part where the user has
to pick a password goes away,
but you do have to come up
with a way to provision the
device with these certificates,
and that can be tricky.
The other one is SRP,
which actually avoids sending the
clear password even when you sign up.
It will only ever send something that
is already derived from the password,
and that will make it better
so that you have a variety.
When you sign up on one
site with this password,
that site doesn't necessarily get the
same authenticator as another site gets,
and now you have put a little bit
of a firewall between those two.
So what about the data on the wire?
We'd like to have it
encrypted and authenticated.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to just use TLS here because it provides
us with confidentiality and integrity.
And the reason why we want to use this,
too, is if we don't design
this protocol ourselves,
then we can just wait for it to evolve.
And evolve it will because there
is no such thing as a protocol
that was right the first time.
Everyone has bugs.
We have them, too.
So as we go through and depend on TLS,
we can just wait for the system to
grow up in public and fix the issues.
And from the application,
there is no difference,
but I just get the best
experience as I go.
So the new thing that comes in
there is the server authentication.
What we want in this case is before
we send the password to the server,
we'd like the server to actually
establish who it is so that we know
that we're not sending the password or
something someone could use as a password
to another site to the wrong entity.
So we'll make sure of that first.
And after we've made sure of that,
then we can establish the keys
and make sure that we actually
encrypt the data that is being
sent to the server so that only the
client and the server can see it.
Another part that you may not have
thought of before is the integrity part.
And what that essentially means
is when I send data to the server,
it is not impossible for an attacker
to make part of this data disappear.
If he controls enough of
the network infrastructure,
he can just make sure that that data
never comes out on the other side.
And even though it's encrypted,
encrypted does not mean that someone
cannot just take a block of ciphertext
out and just have some of it disappear
without you necessarily noticing,
because when you decrypt it,
how do you know that it's still intact?
So that is what data integrity is.
It will not be able to stop
people from truncating the data,
but it will be able to tell
you that that has happened.
So let's go back to
server authentication,
because I glossed over the
fact with the certificates.
So here we have our server,
and we run this virtual server that
will identify itself as server.com.
And the first thing it will need to
do is we'll find ourselves someone
who can provide us with a certificate.
In this case,
we're going to go to HonestAge
to get us a certificate.
That's going to be the authority
that's going to issue us a certificate.
So the next step,
we need to generate a key.
This key will allow us to
prove to everyone who we are.
But then the next step will be
we'll use this key to prove to
ABEs we have control over this key,
and we'll say we'd like
to be known as server.com.
HonestAge will do some checks and hand
us back a certificate that now says,
okay, the person that uses this key,
that is server.com.
So that was the setup on the server.
What happens when the client comes along?
Server will go ahead and present its
certificate to the client and say,
like, here I am.
It will use its key to prove
to the client I am the server,
because the client can see, okay,
if this key matches what
you sent me as proof,
then I know that you must be server.com.
But how does it know that?
How does the client
actually believe HonestAge?
Well, the client has already been
provisioned with all of these
authorities that exist around the
world that pass out certificates.
And therefore, if the client happens to
have HonestAge in its list,
it can see, like, hey,
this certificate was issued by HonestAge,
and therefore I will trust this server,
and then it can continue to send the
password and communicate with the server.
So in summary, certificates contain
an identity of sorts.
This can be like an email address,
but in this case it is server.com.
It identifies who we are
when people connect to us.
And they also contain a verification key,
because we will send some form of
proof that that key can be used
to validate that we have control
over the other part of this key.
And therefore,
in combination with this certificate,
that will prove who we are.
Now, how does the client find that out?
Well, there is the authority that
issued us this certificate.
And how does the authority
bind these two together?
Well, they do something very similar
that we did when we presented
this certificate to the client.
They will use their key that's
in their certificate to prove,
hey, this identity, server.com,
and this key that they were using,
those two belong together
and form a signature over it
that can then be validated.
So, with that being true,
and we have a bunch of authorities,
and they all issue leaves,
we can build a whole bunch of trees,
and now we have,
with just a few authorities,
we can actually have a whole
bunch of entities in the world
that can trust each other.
But that does assume the prearranged
trust of all of these authorities,
that we all trust them.
So, how do we do that in a client?
Because the server was a
little bit more involved,
but the client, of course,
is very simple.
We go from HTTP to HTS,
which actually means just do HTTP,
but do it over TLS or SSL,
as you may know.
So what's next?
Nothing can be that simple.
Well, maybe it is.
If you need to connect to a variety
of servers out there and you need to
actually be able to trust a whole bunch
of them that you didn't know in advance,
then you're done.
But imagine that you are
still testing and you don't
actually want to spring for,
like, a certificate just yet.
Or maybe your application will be used
in a much more limited environment
where you have a specific authority in
mind that is going to issue everyone
that uses this server the certificates.
Well, why not in your application limit
it to that one authority so that
no one else can basically generate
certificates that all the devices
using this service will trust?
You may also want to use authentication
with client certificates.
In that case, you will handle another
authentication challenge,
and you will present this certificate
during the connection that is being made.
And maybe you cannot actually use TCP/IP.
Maybe you have a game or something
like that and you need to actually
send data in UDP datagrams.
And in that case, you would use DTLS,
but now you cannot use the
higher-level clients anymore.
So what happens when you run
into any of these situations?
Well, most of them are handled by
authentication challenges that come in,
either to do specific server trust,
where you don't want to
necessarily trust all of the
authorities that the device trusts,
or you want to provide a
client certificate to send.
In the case of DTLS,
you will have to drop one
layer down to secure transport,
because there is no general
server infrastructure.
So for servers, this would be the same.
If you wanted to set up your own
little HTTPS server within your client,
you'd also be forced to use
secure transport to do that.
If you look at the sample
code from last year,
we actually had multiple devices
that were doing peer-to-peer sharing,
and all of them had their own
little server on the device as well,
where a client of the other devices
would be able to share pictures.
And so you can see an example of
how to use secure transport there.
So now that we've fixed up everything,
we're going to give it another shot.
Going to quickly rerun the first demo.
Okay.
So first we're going to
go back to no security,
leaving no surprises there.
We're going to authenticate
because the server said,
"Hey, who are you,
and which pictures are we going to see?"
And there we have some pictures.
I know this one is pretty.
So that was the standard demo.
And that is me.
I successfully captured
some packets there.
And two stick out as being
particularly interesting,
as they have a fairly large file size.
I'm just going to have a look and
see that we have an HTTP header,
MIME type of JPEG,
and there's the EXIF information.
A little utility that
strips out the body.
And we have the image captured.
We showed that from the header,
we're using HTTP.
So somewhere in there is a GET request.
So let's take this file and
just look at its HTTP header.
This is the... what
I assume to be the password.
So I'm just going to decode it,
and there is the username and password.
So I'm going to remove all this
so you can tell I'm not cheating
for the next part of the demo,
when Conrad is going
to run the application,
but this time using digest
authentication and HTTPS.
So we have a cleared screen again,
and the authentication is up again.
We're going to do the same thing.
There are the pictures, and, well,
they're the same ones as before.
Let's see what Andrew got this time.
So, again,
I have some files in there,
and yet again,
I've got a couple which seem
like they might be a bit more
interesting due to their file size.
And this time, can't see anything at all.
all nicely opaque to us.
I'm going to assume this is TLS,
and I'm going to assume that
they're using certificates.
So in this stream,
I can grep and see if there's
any mention of certificates.
So let's look at that.
All I'm demonstrating here is
that even though the main content
of the connection is encrypted,
the certificate exchange at the
beginning happens in clear text.
So here at the top I can see
there's part of an X509 certificate
in there for honest aides,
and local is indeed oversharing.
So, I've been locked out of mounting
my attack over the network.
So, luckily,
Conrad has left his device lying around.
And I've now moved from being an attacker
on the network to an attacker who has
somehow gained control of the device.
So I'm going to plug it into this system.
And I have something that is
simulating a forensics tool,
or perhaps a jailbreak that has
been able to get file system access.
And it's managed to find
some files on there.
has managed to pull off the file.
So I've been defeated
as a network attacker,
but I have succeeded in an attacker who
has gained control of the local device.
So that also is not very good.
So I want to invite
Michael onto the stage,
who's going to talk about how
we can secure the data at rest.
So as Andrew showed you,
securing a network is fairly simple.
Just add an S to the protocol.
Turns out, securing the data on the
device is almost as easy.
So what we do is,
without doing any kind of
security on the device,
as Andrew's shown,
forensics tools or jailbreaks will
allow you access to the file system.
In order to prevent that,
we can adopt data protection,
and that will prevent an attacker
from getting to the user's data
when their device is lost or stolen.
Data protection will tie the data on
the device to the user's passcode,
which means it is only as strong
as the passcode your user chooses.
But if a user cares about the
security of their data and they
choose a strong enough password,
their data will be protected,
assuming you as a developer did your job
and adopted the data protection APIs.
So you might be familiar with a
technology called full disk encryption,
which we have on the desktop.
And data protection differs from full
disk encryption in a number of ways.
First way it differs is in addition to
the user's passcode protecting the data,
data protection also ties the keys
that protect your data to the device.
FDE is volume-based,
data protection is file-based.
The reason for that is that on iOS,
devices are almost always on.
And because of that,
there's different classes of
data that need to be available
to access at different times.
Some data needs to be
available after first unlock,
which is basically what FDE does.
When you first enter your password,
your data becomes available
until you power the device down.
That's the lowest level of protection
on iOS for data protection.
Keys remain in memory until
you power off the device.
The next mode is "while unlocked," and
this is what you really want to adopt,
unless you have a really
good reason not to,
which is while your device is
unlocked and the user is actively
accessing -- using your application,
files are available.
As soon as the user
presses the lock button,
guaranteed within 10
seconds after that happens,
the keys are purged from memory and
the data is no longer accessible.
So if your application doesn't
need to run in the background,
you should be using the while
unlocked data protection classes.
So how does data protection work?
What do we do?
So, well, to start off,
let's say we have a protected file,
one of the images that
the application's using.
And for each file,
at the time the file is created,
the system generates a random file key.
That file key protects the file,
and that file key itself is
protected by a class key.
Which class key protects that key is
determined by the protection class
you choose in your application.
Now, that class key is normally
not available in memory,
and when the user first
unlocks the device,
what happens is we take the device key
and the passcode that the user enters,
combine those two to
generate a master key,
and that master key is then
used to decrypt the class key.
So what's stored on the device
when the device is locked is
just a protected class key.
Now, once we've decrypted the class key,
we forget the master key
and the user passcode again.
So the class key stays in memory
while the device is unlocked,
but the keys that were used
to protect the class key are
actually gone at this point.
So there's a number of APIs on the
system that let you control how files
are protected using data protection.
The File Manager is the first one,
and there's an attribute there
called NSFileProtectionKey,
for which the values all
start with NSFileProtection,
and there's different variants that
let you choose the different classes,
which I'll get into.
CoreData uses the same name.
NSData has data writing options,
so if you're using
NSData to write a file,
then you can choose during the
writing of the file how you
want that file to be protected.
And SQLite lets you set,
at the time you open the
database or create the database,
how you want the database protected.
The additional thing this does
is it also protects the journal
files that SQLite might create.
So it's not just the database,
but any journals that are
made when you're committing
transactions are also protected.
And then finally,
there's the SecItem API,
which is also known as the Keychain API,
that uses the KSecAdderAccessible
attribute that lets you control the
protection class of keychain items.
So here's an example of how you
would use the NSData interfaces to
protect a file when you create it.
So the example is an
Objective-C method that takes an image,
and we're going to extract
the JPEG representation of the
image and write that to a file.
So when we do that,
all we do is we add an option that
says "NSDataWriting file protection
complete." File protection complete
means the file is completely protected
unless the device is unlocked.
So as soon as the device is locked,
the file is completely protected.
While the device is in use,
obviously the file can be accessed.
So some things to keep in mind, which is,
as I mentioned earlier,
data protection is only as good as
the passcode that the user uses.
So if a user uses a four-digit PIN, say,
that will protect against a
hardened attacker that gains
physical access to the device,
if they manage to try and
brute force that password,
it'll take no less than eight minutes
or so to crack a four-digit PIN.
But if you have an eight-
or a ten-digit PIN,
we're talking about months
versus years of time that it
would take to brute force that.
And that's in part because we
tie the PIN or the passcode
to the device key as well.
And there's no way to attack
that password offline.
So now another downside is
that if you're using complete,
you can't access these files
while the device is unlocked.
Now if you have an application where you
need to access files in the background
because you're using a computer,
you can't access these files
while the device is unlocked.
So if you started, say,
recording a sound file and
you want to continue recording
after the device is locked,
well, you wouldn't be able to use
protection complete because ten
seconds after the device locked,
you wouldn't be able to
write to the file anymore.
So for that, we have a mode called file
protection complete unless open.
And what that does is it lets you
continue to read and write from
that file as long as the device --
as long as you keep that file open.
It also lets you create
files in the background when,
say,
you have an application that responds
to a background notification while
the device is in the user's pocket.
And you might,
as a result of that notification,
want to go out and, you know,
fetch some file and
store it on the device.
If you're doing that,
you can use file protection
complete until open -- sorry,
unless open to create that file.
Example of this would be a data dropbox.
Let's say you have an application
that accepts a connection
and lets you drop in a file.
So what would we do?
If we're writing this image,
we'll try and first write the image
optimistically with protection complete.
And if that fails,
we'll just try it again,
and this time write it
with complete unless open.
Now, one thing we recommend you do,
if you can,
is when you're back to an unlocked state,
upgrade the protection class from
complete unless open to complete,
assuming you don't need to continue
accessing that file in the background.
And the way to do that would be,
if we have this data dropbox,
we'd use the file manager API to
iterate through the directory,
Then look at each file in that directory,
check its file attributes.
If the protection isn't
already protection complete,
we create a dictionary with an
attribute that says "file protection
complete," set that attribute
on the files protection class,
and we're done.
So that solves the cases of accessing
files while unlocked and basically
continuing to access files that
you created while the device was
unlocked or created in the background.
What about if you get a notification and
you need to access some database to look
something up while the device is locked,
and that database might
not have been opened yet?
Well, for that,
we have protection complete
until first user authentication.
This lets you access the file as long as
the user has unlocked the device once,
and you continue to access those files,
both reading and writing,
until the device is powered down.
This protects the data from
reboot until first unlock,
which means if you leave a device
somewhere and it's powered off,
or you hand it to someone
while it's powered off,
they can't get to the data.
It also means that a forensics tool or a
jailbreak that requires a reboot to get
to the user's data still wouldn't be able
to get to data protected by this class.
So because of that, it's better than just
having no protection at all.
Now, here's an example of how you would
create a database that's readable
and writable in the background
even when the device is unlocked.
So we'd use the SQLite open API and
pass the optional parameter of open
file protection complete until first
user authentication to the open call.
So, the more common case for most
of you is actually going to be
that you have an application
that just runs in the foreground,
and you don't really want to have
to add all these attributes and
things to every single API you call.
It turns out there's a
really easy way to do that.
You add an entitlement
to your application,
the default data protection entitlement.
You set its value to
NSFileProtectionComplete.
And at that point,
every file you create in your application
is protected with that protection class,
including files created on your behalf
by frameworks you're calling or,
you know, etc.
So everything you create
in your application.
Now, if you have exceptions to that rule,
let's say there's some files you
need to access in the background,
you can still use the
APIs I showed earlier to change
the default for those files.
You will need a new provisioning
profile to use this because it's
not currently on by default.
And to do so, you need to go to the
provisioning portal,
go into the App ID section,
and check the checkbox that says "Enable
for data protection." And there you get
to choose the default class you want.
Now you renew your provisioning
profile or just download a new
profile in the Xcode Manager.
And you're done.
Xcode will automatically
add the entitlement to your
application when you rebuild it.
So, in summary,
use NS File Protection Complete for
all your applications,
unless you have a reason not to.
So if you have an app,
whether it's a game or any kind of app,
it doesn't matter.
If it doesn't run in the background,
set this entitlement.
And with that, I'd like to start talking
about the keychain.
So, the keychain, you think, "Well,
now we have data protection.
I can just use data protection
files to store anything,
building credentials." Well,
the keychain is actually a subset
of the system where we do even more
work to protect the user's data.
And in particular,
in the case of backups and migratability,
the keychain gives you even
more fine-grained control
than data protection.
So when you're dealing with
user credentials like passwords
or certificates and keys,
we really recommend you use
the keychain to store those.
So the keychain has the same
set of data protection classes
that are available to files,
and they have slightly different names.
So NSFileProtectionComplete
in the keychain is called
accessible when unlocked.
There's not really an equivalent
of unless open for the keychain.
And for complete until
first user authentication,
the keychain equivalent
is after first unlock.
And then there's the fourth one,
which is none,
which you should just not use.
Now, in addition to these,
the keychain adds three variants of this,
which add "this device
only" to the end of it.
And what that does is,
if you create a keychain item and you
set the accessible attribute to one
of the "this device only" variants,
then in a backup,
the keychain data in the backup continues
to be protected by the device key,
which means that even if someone were
to gain access to your keychain backup
and gain access to the backup password,
they still wouldn't be able to get
the data without physical access to
the device that it was backed up from.
So if an attacker got your
laptop with iTunes but they
didn't get your iOS device,
they still wouldn't be
able to get your data.
The additional feature of this is that
if you backup that keychain to one device
and restore it to a different device,
those keychain items will no
longer exist on the new device.
And this can be useful in the case of
storing things in the keychain that you
really want to bind to a particular unit
rather than having to do it on your own.
Michael Brouwel, Conrad Sauerwald,
Andrew Whalley Now, in addition to these,
the keychain items will no
longer exist on the new device.
And this can be useful in the case of
storing things in the keychain that you
really want to bind to a particular unit
rather than having to do it on your own.
it move with the user as
they move to a new unit.
I'm going to show you some examples
of how to use the keychain.
And I know a lot of
people are intimidated,
and there's lots of, like,
keychain wrappers floating
around on the network.
And it turns out that you don't
really need a wrapper because you
really only need about 10 lines
of code to access the keychain.
So to do generic password,
which we're using here,
we have one common method
called queryForAccount,
which will basically create
a dictionary with the class,
the service, and the account for the item
that you're trying to store
or look up in the keychain.
And we're going to use that in the
other three methods I'll go through.
So we start with the
method passwordForAccount,
which is a lookup to see, you know,
can I find a password for
this account in the keychain?
And the way we do that is
we first create the query,
and then we add one extra
attribute to that query,
which is,
please return the data of the item
because I want to get the password out.
Amen.
Then we simply call secItemCopyMatching,
which will return any items
matching the query you just gave it.
And if the status returned
by that is not found,
we'll set the found flag to false.
If it's any other status,
then we'll assume we found the item.
and return the data.
So, now if we didn't find the data,
we're going to need a way to
add a new item to the keychain.
So for that,
we created a method called "setPassword."
So setPasswordForAccount will start
off using the same queryForAccount
method to get the basic query.
And now we're going to
add two keys to that,
first one being the valueData key,
which includes the actual password
data we're trying to store.
And the second one would be
the accessibility attribute
that we want to set.
So it happens that accessibleWhenUnlocked
is the default for newly created items.
So this example, you could leave off
that second attribute,
but I put it here for clarity.
And then we call secItemAdd to
add the item to the keychain.
Now, the last case would be if you
had an item in the keychain,
but it turned out the password was wrong,
we prompt the user for a new password,
and now we want to update
that existing item.
So for that,
we need an update password call, which,
again, we start by creating the query.
Then we add--we create a new dictionary,
which are the attributes that we
want to change for that query.
And in that dictionary, we, again,
set the data,
and we set the accessibility attribute.
And then we call secitemupdate with the
query and the attributes that we want to
change for any items matching that query.
So tying it all together,
this is what the high-level keychain
wrapper code would look like.
We have a login to an account method,
and we start off by looking up
the password in the keychain.
If we find a password,
we try and login to the
account with the password.
This is a method you're going to write
in your own application somewhere.
And if that succeeds, we're done.
If it didn't succeed,
we're going to ask the
user for the password,
attempt to login with the
password the user just gave us.
If that succeeds, then we'll,
based on whether we previously
found the item or not,
we'll either update the password or
add the password to the keychain,
and we're done.
And that's it.
So with that,
I want to bring Andrew back on stage
and see how well he fares against a
version of Conrad's application that's
been hardened by using data protection.
Thank you.
So Conrad, the author of Naivete,
has decided he wants to
adopt data protection.
And he's put out an update to his app,
which has done two things.
It's set the default
data protection class,
but also it has a routine based on
the iteration that Michael showed,
which will go and look at the
existing files in his application,
in the application folder,
and upgrade them,
as the default only applies
to newly created files.
So, yet again,
the device is lying around,
and we can see that
it has a password set.
Only we can't, but it has a passcode set.
I now have my forensic tool again.
I'm going to run it.
And this time, you see,
we have operation not permitted.
It might be worth pointing out that
I can still look at the file name.
It's the main data of the
file that is encrypted.
The key is stored in the metadata,
along with things like the file name,
last modification time,
and NAT is not protected.
So I have successfully been
able to show that the latest
version of the Naivete app has
protected itself from network
attack and also protected itself
from an attacker who has gained
physical possession of the device.
So, to summarize,
we've looked at some simple ways that
you can protect your customers' data.
Storing secrets in the keychain.
Using the entitlement
provisioning profile to easily
set the data protection class.
worked out how to best possibly
protect data in each of the classes,
and some really simple ways to encrypt,
authenticate,
and protect network traffic,
and given some pointers to secure
transport if you want to do some
more advanced things with it.
And the last thing I would say
is please fire bugs against us.
Especially if you're developing
security-critical applications yourself
and think that our high-level APIs are
either lacking something or not clear,
go to bugreport.apple.com,
put them in as feature
requests or enhancements,
and we do really read them,
and they are very important
when we do feature planning.
So there's more information
at developer.apple.com.
Some lots of good references up there.
And also, only a few weeks ago,
we published a updated iOS security
white paper that has a lot of technical
details about how this all works.
I commend it to you,
even if I do say so myself.
It's Friday, and all the related sessions
have already occurred,
but whenever the videos come out,
make sure you catch up on
the other security talks
that have occurred this week.
Finally, the source code is not yet up,
but we'll work to get it up
either on the WWDC site or in
the main example code section.
So if you search there for
"naivete," it should come up.